source_data/slr/README.md, before:

# SECAS Southeast Conservation Blueprint Sea Level Rise data

NOTE: this is not aligned to the blueprint grid.

Data were obtained from Amy Keister on 3/10/2020. She exported individual
Geotiffs created from the source files created in her processing chain for
mosiacking SLR data obtained from NOAA (https://coast.noaa.gov/slrdata/).

These are a series of GeoTIFF files
for small areas along the coast, with varying footprints and resolution. To use
here, we constructed a VRT using GDAL, and used a resolution of 15 meters for
easier aggregation in results.

Values are coded 0-6 for the amount of sea level rise that would impact a given
area. Values are cumulative, so a value of 6 means that the area is also
inundated by 1-5 feet.

From within `data/threats/slr` directory:

```
gdalbuildvrt -overwrite -resolution user -tr 15 15 slr.vrt *.tif
```

To assist with checking if a given area of interest overlaps SLR data, the
bounds of all SLR files are extracted to a dataset using
`util/prepare_slr.py`.

Commit message:

Add scripts to download and rasterize SLR data

source_data/slr/README.md, after:

# SECAS Southeast Conservation Blueprint Sea Level Rise data

### Download SLR data

The latest SLR data are downloaded from [NOAA](https://coast.noaa.gov/slrdata/)
as polygon extent of inundation per foot of depth between 0 and 10 feet.

Data downloaded 7/31/2022.

Data are downloaded using `analysis/prep/download_slr.py`.

## Rasterize SLR data

SLR data polygons are rasterized to 15 meter resolution using SE Bluprint
standard projection (EPSG:5070) and snapped to the Blueprint grid so that
everything aligns correctly.

Data are prepared using `analysis/prep/rasterize_slr.py`

Values are coded 0 (already inundated) - 10 feet.

Because SLR data covers a relatively small area but a very large extent, data
are retained in their original chunks as delivered by NOAA, and compiled into
a virtual raster table using GDAL.

This step also creates a polygon boundary dataset of all areas covered by SLR
datasets, which can be intersected with an area of interest to determine if SLR
data are available.

The final output file of this step is `data/inputs/threats/slr/slr.vrt`.

Both the VRT file and the individual GeoTIFFs need to be present for analysis.
